Write approximately 200 words describing what you want to learn in this class and what you are most excited to learn.

My current knowledge of data analysis stems from creating ad hoc reporting for the various teams at work. This has been fun and I wish to explore how to improve my own report-making abilities as well as create helpful visualizations without the users having to request specific charts. Instead of recreating a chart from an existing excel file to use live data, I’d like to have the skills to improve on them and show insights users are missing. I’ve found dirty data due to human error and reports that I made previously, while exactly what was asked for, do not provide helpful insights. 
There is so much to data I am completely unaware of, my primary goal for this class is to determine what I don’t know and start chipping away at it. I want to improve my methods for data visualization and come up with meaningful insights for all the teams I support. Beyond that, I’m excited to learn the areas of data analysis before and after ad hoc reporting, so I can improve at work and find other sources of data to analyze for fun. I know that some of this knowledge will come with experience, playing with different datasets and tools, but I need a foundation first, for the various languages, tools and methods to use.



Write approximately 100 words describing how the skills you'll learn in this class will help your career. If you don't have a career in this field yet, no problem! Write about how these skills will help you reach your goal.

This class is to help me determine if I want this to be my career. Ad hoc reporting has been fun, but this has the potential to go so much further and I want to find out how invested I am. I may not be able to immediately apply the tools taught, but the mindset used and other best practices in reporting and data visualization I can use immediately to improve the insights available for the different teams I support. We currently use a reporting tool called EazyBI, which can use Javascript, a language I am not currently familiar with but will be by the end of the class. With this I can clean the data as well as apply any other lessons in data visualization and presentation.
